README.md, before:

# TronBox v2.7.14
Simple development framework for tronweb
**TronBox is a fork of [Truffle](https://www.trufflesuite.com/truffle) [code](https://github.com/trufflesuite/truffle)**

[TronBox Documentation](https://developers.tron.network/docs/tron-box-user-guide)

## Installation
```
npm install -g tronbox
```
## OS requirement
- NodeJS 8.0+
- Windows, Linux, or Mac OS X

## Features
Initialize a Customer Tron-Box Project
```
tronbox init
```

Download a dApp, ex: metacoin-box
```
tronbox unbox metacoin
```
Contract Compiler
```
tronbox compile
```

To compile for all contracts, select --compile-all.

Optionally, you can select: <br>
--compile-all: Force compile all contracts. <br>
--network save results to a specific host network<br>
<br>

## Configuration
To use TronBox, your dApp has to have a file `tronbox.js` in the source root. This special files, tells TronBox how to connect to nodes and event server, and passes some special parameters, like the default private key. This is an example of `tronbox.js`:
```javascript
module.exports = {
  networks: {
    development: {
      // For trontools/quickstart docker image
      privateKey: 'da146374a75310b9666e834ee4ad0866d6f4035967bfc76217c5a495fff9f0d0',
      userFeePercentage: 30, // or consume_user_resource_percent
      feeLimit: 100000000, // or fee_limit
      originEnergyLimit: 1e8, // or origin_energy_limit
      callValue: 0, // or call_value
      fullNode: "http://127.0.0.1:8090",
      solidityNode: "http://127.0.0.1:8091",
      eventServer: "http://127.0.0.1:8092",
      network_id: "*"
    },
    mainnet: {
      // Don't put your private key here, pass it using an env variable, like:
      // PK=da146374a75310b9666e834ee4ad0866d6f4035967bfc76217c5a495fff9f0d0 tronbox migrate --network mainnet
      privateKey: process.env.PK,
      userFeePercentage: 30,
      feeLimit: 100000000,
      fullNode: "https://api.trongrid.io",
      solidityNode: "https://api.trongrid.io",
      eventServer: "https://api.trongrid.io",
      network_id: "*"
    }
  }
};
```
Starting from TronBox 2.1.9, if you are connecting to the same host for full and solidity nodes, and event server, you can set just `fullHost`:
```javascript
module.exports = {
  networks: {
    development: {
      // For trontools/quickstart docker image
      privateKey: 'da146374a75310b9666e834ee4ad0866d6f4035967bfc76217c5a495fff9f0d0',
      userFeePercentage: 30,
      feeLimit: 100000000,
      fullHost: "http://127.0.0.1:9090",
      network_id: "*"
    },
    mainnet: {
      // Don't put your private key here, pass it using an env variable, like:
      // PK=da146374a75310b9666e834ee4ad0866d6f4035967bfc76217c5a495fff9f0d0 tronbox migrate --network mainnet
      privateKey: process.env.PK,
      userFeePercentage: 30,
      feeLimit: 100000000,
      fullHost: "https://api.trongrid.io",
      network_id: "*"
    }
  }
};
```
Notice that the example above uses Tron Quickstart >= 1.1.16, which exposes a mononode on port 9090.

#### Configure Solc

You can configure the solc compiler as the following example in tronbox.js
```javascript
module.exports = {
  networks: {
    // ...
    compilers: {
      solc: {
        version: '0.5.15' // for compiler version
      }
    }
  },

  // solc compiler optimize
  solc: {
    optimizer: {
      enabled: false, // default: false, true: enable solc optimize
      runs: 200
    },
    evmVersion: 'istanbul'
  }
}
```

Tron Solidity supported the following versions:

```
0.4.24
0.4.25
0.5.4
0.5.8
0.5.9
0.5.10
0.5.12
0.5.13
0.5.14
0.5.15
```

more versions details: https://troncore.github.io/tron-solc-bin/bin/


## Contract Migration

```
tronbox migrate
```

This command will invoke all migration scripts within the migrations directory. If your previous migration was successful, `tronbox migrate` will invoke a newly created migration. If there is no new migration script, this command will have no operational effect. Instead, you can use the option `--reset` to restart the migration script.

```
tronbox migrate --reset
```

## Parameters by contract (introduced in v2.2.2)

It is very important to set the deploying parameters for any contract. In TronBox 2.2.2+ you can do it modifying the file
```
migrations/2_deploy_contracts.js
```
and specifying the parameters you need like in the following example:
```javascript
var ConvertLib = artifacts.require("./ConvertLib.sol");
var MetaCoin = artifacts.require("./MetaCoin.sol");

module.exports = function(deployer) {
  deployer.deploy(ConvertLib);
  deployer.link(ConvertLib, MetaCoin);
  deployer.deploy(MetaCoin, 10000, {
    fee_limit: 1.1e8,
    userFeePercentage: 31,
    originEnergyLimit: 1.1e8
  });
};
```

## Start Console<br>
This will use the default network to start a console. It will automatically connect to a TVM client. You can use `--network` to change this.

```
tronbox console
```

The console supports the `tronbox` command. For example, you can invoke `migrate --reset` in the console. The result is the same as invoking `tronbox migrate --reset` in the command.
<br>

## Extra Features in TronBox console:<br>

1. All the compiled contracts can be used, just like in development & test, front-end code, or during script migration. <br>

2. After each command, your contract will be re-loaded. After invoking the `migrate --reset` command, you can immediately use the new address and binary.<br>

3. Every returned command's promise will automatically be logged. There is no need to use `then()`, which simplifies the command.<br>

## Testing<br>

To carry out the test, run the following command:

```
tronbox test
```

You can also run the test for a specific file：

```
tronbox test ./path/to/test/file.js
```

Testing in TronBox is a bit different than in Truffle.
Let's say we want to test the contract Metacoin (from the Metacoin Box that you can download with `tronbox unbox metacoin`):

```solidity
contract MetaCoin {
	mapping (address => uint) balances;

	event Transfer(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value);
	event Log(string s);

	constructor() public {
		balances[tx.origin] = 10000;
	}

	function sendCoin(address receiver, uint amount) public returns(bool sufficient) {
		if (balances[msg.sender] < amount) return false;
		balances[msg.sender] -= amount;
		balances[receiver] += amount;
		emit Transfer(msg.sender, receiver, amount);
		return true;
	}

	function getBalanceInEth(address addr) public view returns(uint){
		return ConvertLib.convert(getBalance(addr),2);
	}

	function getBalance(address addr) public view returns(uint) {
		return balances[addr];
	}
}
```

Now, take a look at the first test in `test/metacoin.js`:
```javascript
var MetaCoin = artifacts.require("./MetaCoin.sol");
contract('MetaCoin', function(accounts) {
  it("should put 10000 MetaCoin in the first account", function() {

    return MetaCoin.deployed().then(function(instance) {
      return instance.call('getBalance',[accounts[0]]);
    }).then(function(balance) {
      assert.equal(balance.toNumber(), 10000, "10000 wasn't in the first account");
    });
  });
  // ...
```
Starting from version 2.0.5, in TronBox artifacts () the following commands are equivalent:
```javascript
instance.call('getBalance', accounts[0]);
instance.getBalance(accounts[0]);
instance.getBalance.call(accounts[0]);
```
and you can pass the `address` and `amount` for the method in both the following ways:
```javascript
instance.sendCoin(address, amount, {from: account[1]});
```
and
```javascript
instance.sendCoin([address, amount], {from: account[1]});
```

## How to contribute

1. Fork this repo.

2. Clone your forked repo recursively, to include submodules, for example:
```shell script
git clone --recurse-submodules -j8 git@github.com:sullof/tronbox.git
```
3. If you use nvm for Node, please install Node 8, and install lerna globally:
```shell script
nvm install v8.16.0
nvm use v8.16.0
npm i -g lerna
```
4. Bootstrap the project:
```shell script
lerna bootstrap
```
5. During the development, for better debugging, you can run the unbuilt version of TronBox, for example
```shell script
./tronbox.dev migrate --reset
```

## TronBox Changelog

for more details: [CHANGELOG](./CHANGELOG.md)

Commit message:

add signature for tronbox (#84)
* signature tronbox

* release v2.7.15

* signature tronbox

* signature tronbox for readme.md update

* signature tronbox

* signature tronbox and release

* release

* add note for version update

* update document

* update document

* update document

Co-authored-by: kjc233 <Jason.Kang@tron.network>

README.md, after:

# TronBox v2.7.17
Simple development framework for tronweb
**TronBox is a fork of [Truffle](https://www.trufflesuite.com/truffle) [code](https://github.com/trufflesuite/truffle)**

[TronBox Documentation](https://developers.tron.network/docs/tron-box-user-guide)

## Installation
```
npm install -g tronbox
```
## OS requirement
- NodeJS 8.0+
- Windows, Linux, or Mac OS X

## Features
Initialize a Customer Tron-Box Project
```
tronbox init
```

Download a dApp, ex: metacoin-box
```
tronbox unbox metacoin
```
Contract Compiler
```
tronbox compile
```

To compile for all contracts, select --compile-all.

Optionally, you can select: <br>
--compile-all: Force compile all contracts. <br>
--network save results to a specific host network<br>
<br>

## Configuration
To use TronBox, your dApp has to have a file `tronbox.js` in the source root. This special files, tells TronBox how to connect to nodes and event server, and passes some special parameters, like the default private key. This is an example of `tronbox.js`:
```javascript
module.exports = {
  networks: {
    development: {
      // For trontools/quickstart docker image
      privateKey: 'da146374a75310b9666e834ee4ad0866d6f4035967bfc76217c5a495fff9f0d0',
      userFeePercentage: 30, // or consume_user_resource_percent
      feeLimit: 100000000, // or fee_limit
      originEnergyLimit: 1e8, // or origin_energy_limit
      callValue: 0, // or call_value
      fullNode: "http://127.0.0.1:8090",
      solidityNode: "http://127.0.0.1:8091",
      eventServer: "http://127.0.0.1:8092",
      network_id: "*"
    },
    mainnet: {
      // Don't put your private key here, pass it using an env variable, like:
      // PK=da146374a75310b9666e834ee4ad0866d6f4035967bfc76217c5a495fff9f0d0 tronbox migrate --network mainnet
      privateKey: process.env.PK,
      userFeePercentage: 30,
      feeLimit: 100000000,
      fullNode: "https://api.trongrid.io",
      solidityNode: "https://api.trongrid.io",
      eventServer: "https://api.trongrid.io",
      network_id: "*"
    }
  }
};
```
Starting from TronBox 2.1.9, if you are connecting to the same host for full and solidity nodes, and event server, you can set just `fullHost`:
```javascript
module.exports = {
  networks: {
    development: {
      // For trontools/quickstart docker image
      privateKey: 'da146374a75310b9666e834ee4ad0866d6f4035967bfc76217c5a495fff9f0d0',
      userFeePercentage: 30,
      feeLimit: 100000000,
      fullHost: "http://127.0.0.1:9090",
      network_id: "*"
    },
    mainnet: {
      // Don't put your private key here, pass it using an env variable, like:
      // PK=da146374a75310b9666e834ee4ad0866d6f4035967bfc76217c5a495fff9f0d0 tronbox migrate --network mainnet
      privateKey: process.env.PK,
      userFeePercentage: 30,
      feeLimit: 100000000,
      fullHost: "https://api.trongrid.io",
      network_id: "*"
    }
  }
};
```
Notice that the example above uses Tron Quickstart >= 1.1.16, which exposes a mononode on port 9090.

#### Configure Solc

You can configure the solc compiler as the following example in tronbox.js
```javascript
module.exports = {
  networks: {
    // ...
    compilers: {
      solc: {
        version: '0.5.15' // for compiler version
      }
    }
  },

  // solc compiler optimize
  solc: {
    optimizer: {
      enabled: false, // default: false, true: enable solc optimize
      runs: 200
    },
    evmVersion: 'istanbul'
  }
}
```

Tron Solidity supported the following versions:

```
0.4.24
0.4.25
0.5.4
0.5.8
0.5.9
0.5.10
0.5.12
0.5.13
0.5.14
0.5.15
```

more versions details: https://troncore.github.io/tron-solc-bin/bin/


## Contract Migration

```
tronbox migrate
```

This command will invoke all migration scripts within the migrations directory. If your previous migration was successful, `tronbox migrate` will invoke a newly created migration. If there is no new migration script, this command will have no operational effect. Instead, you can use the option `--reset` to restart the migration script.

```
tronbox migrate --reset
```

## Parameters by contract (introduced in v2.2.2)

It is very important to set the deploying parameters for any contract. In TronBox 2.2.2+ you can do it modifying the file
```
migrations/2_deploy_contracts.js
```
and specifying the parameters you need like in the following example:
```javascript
var ConvertLib = artifacts.require("./ConvertLib.sol");
var MetaCoin = artifacts.require("./MetaCoin.sol");

module.exports = function(deployer) {
  deployer.deploy(ConvertLib);
  deployer.link(ConvertLib, MetaCoin);
  deployer.deploy(MetaCoin, 10000, {
    fee_limit: 1.1e8,
    userFeePercentage: 31,
    originEnergyLimit: 1.1e8
  });
};
```

## Start Console<br>
This will use the default network to start a console. It will automatically connect to a TVM client. You can use `--network` to change this.

```
tronbox console
```

The console supports the `tronbox` command. For example, you can invoke `migrate --reset` in the console. The result is the same as invoking `tronbox migrate --reset` in the command.
<br>

## Extra Features in TronBox console:<br>

1. All the compiled contracts can be used, just like in development & test, front-end code, or during script migration. <br>

2. After each command, your contract will be re-loaded. After invoking the `migrate --reset` command, you can immediately use the new address and binary.<br>

3. Every returned command's promise will automatically be logged. There is no need to use `then()`, which simplifies the command.<br>

## Testing<br>

To carry out the test, run the following command:

```
tronbox test
```

You can also run the test for a specific file：

```
tronbox test ./path/to/test/file.js
```

Testing in TronBox is a bit different than in Truffle.
Let's say we want to test the contract Metacoin (from the Metacoin Box that you can download with `tronbox unbox metacoin`):

```solidity
contract MetaCoin {
	mapping (address => uint) balances;

	event Transfer(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value);
	event Log(string s);

	constructor() public {
		balances[tx.origin] = 10000;
	}

	function sendCoin(address receiver, uint amount) public returns(bool sufficient) {
		if (balances[msg.sender] < amount) return false;
		balances[msg.sender] -= amount;
		balances[receiver] += amount;
		emit Transfer(msg.sender, receiver, amount);
		return true;
	}

	function getBalanceInEth(address addr) public view returns(uint){
		return ConvertLib.convert(getBalance(addr),2);
	}

	function getBalance(address addr) public view returns(uint) {
		return balances[addr];
	}
}
```

Now, take a look at the first test in `test/metacoin.js`:
```javascript
var MetaCoin = artifacts.require("./MetaCoin.sol");
contract('MetaCoin', function(accounts) {
  it("should put 10000 MetaCoin in the first account", function() {

    return MetaCoin.deployed().then(function(instance) {
      return instance.call('getBalance',[accounts[0]]);
    }).then(function(balance) {
      assert.equal(balance.toNumber(), 10000, "10000 wasn't in the first account");
    });
  });
  // ...
```
Starting from version 2.0.5, in TronBox artifacts () the following commands are equivalent:
```javascript
instance.call('getBalance', accounts[0]);
instance.getBalance(accounts[0]);
instance.getBalance.call(accounts[0]);
```
and you can pass the `address` and `amount` for the method in both the following ways:
```javascript
instance.sendCoin(address, amount, {from: account[1]});
```
and
```javascript
instance.sendCoin([address, amount], {from: account[1]});
```

# Verifying the PGP signature

Prepare, you need to install the npm [pkgsign](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pkgsign#installation) for verifying.

First, get the version of tronbox dist.tarball

```shell
$ npm view tronbox dist.tarball
https://registry.npmjs.org/tronbox/-/tronbox-2.7.17.tgz
```
Second, get the tarball

```shell
wget https://registry.npmjs.org/tronbox/-/tronbox-2.7.17.tgz
```

Finally, verify the tarball

```shell
$ pkgsign verify tronbox-2.7.17.tgz --package-name tronbox
extracting unsigned tarball...
building file list...
verifying package...
package is trusted
```

You can find the signature public key [here](https://keybase.io/tronbox/pgp_keys.asc).

## How to contribute

1. Fork this repo.

2. Clone your forked repo recursively, to include submodules, for example:
```shell script
git clone --recurse-submodules -j8 git@github.com:sullof/tronbox.git
```
3. If you use nvm for Node, please install Node 8, and install lerna globally:
```shell script
nvm install v8.16.0
nvm use v8.16.0
npm i -g lerna
```
4. Bootstrap the project:
```shell script
lerna bootstrap
```
5. During the development, for better debugging, you can run the unbuilt version of TronBox, for example
```shell script
./tronbox.dev migrate --reset
```

## TronBox Changelog

for more details: [CHANGELOG](./CHANGELOG.md)
